docs/ledger-simulator.md, before:

# How this works

## How the simulator is started and configured

The script `launchAndApproveTxs.ts` executes the ledger simulator.

It uses the `@zondax/zemu` js library to:

- Download the docker image for the simulator (if needed)
- Set the ledger seed to the default or the user-given one
- Execute the docker container for the simulator by passing to it the avalanche app binary `app_s.elf` (ledger nano s device). That starts the simulated avalanche app.
- Create a rpc entry point to the simulated avalanche app so as the golang client ledger library can connect to the simulator (instead of a real device)
- Previous steps can take some time. Once the app and rpc entry is ready, it prints a custom msg `SIMULATED LEDGER DEV READY` as a means to communicate 
  with the test code (or the user) that the simulator can start receiving requests (eg connect to it, ask for addresses, etc).
- Instructs the simulated app (using simulated button presses from the zemu library) to sign `numApprovals` transactions. This number of transactions
  to be approved must be in concordance with the number of transactions that the golang test asks the ledger to approve. In the meantime, the avalanche app
  can also be queried by golang code so as for example to get the ledger addresses.
- Wait for all transactions to be received and approved
- Wait a user-given number of seconds.
- Close the rpc entry point, closes the simulator, stops and remove the docker container.

So, two main points of interaction with the simulated avalanche ledger app are available:

1. Interaction with the ledger from the golang app as if it were a real device: asking for addresses, sending txs to be signed.
2. Interaction with the simulated physical ledger from the typescript code: pressing the ledger buttons in order to sign the transactions.

The script receives three arguments: 

- the number of transactions to sign (could be zero)
- the number of seconds to wait after signing 
- the seed for the ledger, that controls the ledger addresses (could be one word)

Eg to start the ledger app and sign one transaction (will wait -with timeout- for that transaction to be sent):

```bash
ts-node launcheAndApproveTxs.ts 1 0 ledger-seed
```

It can be executed directly by command line, or from inside golang test code.

Note: Besides the typescript based interaction with the ledger's buttons and screen, a web based interaction is also
provided by the simulator, and available under `http://localhost:5000`

## How a golang test connects to the simulator instead of a physical device

As it is currently implemented, a tag must be passed to the build step for avalanche-cli and e2e test binary:

```
-tags ledger_zemu
```

With these tag, the ledger golang library will try to connect to an rpc endpoint instead of a usb device 
when asked to send requests to ledger (query for addresses, etc).

Currently the rpc endpoint is hardcoded in ledger golang library to: `127.0.0.1:3002`

## How a golang test executes and interacts with the typescript script

The test should call `utils.StartLedgerSim(numApprovals, waitSeconds, ledgerSeed, showStdout)` by providing:

- number of txs to be approved by the ledger
- number of seconds to be wait by ledger after approvals
- seed for the ledger
- wether to show stdout

The function returns a channel that should be waited for to be confident the simulator stopped.

See example on `deploy subnet to mainnet` test

It is expected for a test to check env var `LEDGER_SIM`, if it is set to `true`, launch and wait for
the simulator, if not, the test is expected to operate agains a real device.

## Ledger device status for avalanche-cli tests interaction

Latest avalanche ledger app downloadable version `v0.7.2` (and also latest ledger live official version `v0.7.0`) can not interact with tests
as it does not support avalanche-cli local network id 1337.

For that, currently the tests operate against a modified version of `v0.7.2`, available as `app_s.elf` binary.

For a real ledger device to be used with the tests, it should be loaded with a supporting version, currently available on dev branch of ledger-avalanche.

It is expected for next downloadable version to:

- support network id 1337
- provide elf binary downloads

With that elements provided, CLI e2e could start downloading latest ledger app and using it on CI.

## How to execute the test script

By default, the e2e script `scripts/run.e2e.sh` will try to execute all tests (including ledger based ones),
and use physical ledger device.

In order to used a simulated ledger device with the script, the env var LEDGER_SIM should be set to `true`.

For example:

```bash
LEDGER_SIM=true scripts/run.e2e.sh
```

Will execute all e2e tests using a simulated ledger device.

In order to execute a specific ledger test, it must be provided in filter arg.

For example:

```bash
LEDGER_SIM=true scripts/run.e2e.sh --filter 'deploy subnet to mainnet'
```

Another example that always needs to use ledger sim due to test implementation:

```bash
LEDGER_SIM=true scripts/run.e2e.sh --filter multisig
```

Commit message:

add channel to notify ledger simulator that interaction has ended

docs/ledger-simulator.md, after:

# How this works

## How the simulator is started and configured

The script `launchAndApproveTxs.ts` executes the ledger simulator.

It uses the `@zondax/zemu` js library to:

- Download the docker image for the simulator (if needed)
- Set the ledger seed to the default or the user-given one
- Execute the docker container for the simulator by passing to it the avalanche app binary `app_s.elf` (ledger nano s device). That starts the simulated avalanche app.
- Create a rpc entry point to the simulated avalanche app so as the golang client ledger library can connect to the simulator (instead of a real device)
- Previous steps can take some time. Once the app and rpc entry is ready, it prints a custom msg `SIMULATED LEDGER DEV READY` as a means to communicate 
  with the test code (or the user) that the simulator can start receiving requests (eg connect to it, ask for addresses, etc).
- Instructs the simulated app (using simulated button presses from the zemu library) to sign `numApprovals` transactions. This number of transactions
  to be approved must be in concordance with the number of transactions that the golang test asks the ledger to approve. 
- Wait for all transactions to be received and approved. In the meantime, the avalanche app can be queried by golang code so as
  for example to get the ledger addresses.
- Wait for the user to press enter to end the simulator. In the meantime, the avalanche app can be queried by golang code.
- Close the rpc entry point, closes the simulator, stops and remove the docker container.

So, two main points of interaction with the simulated avalanche ledger app are available:

1. Interaction with the ledger from the golang app as if it were a real device: asking for addresses, sending txs to be signed.
2. Interaction with the simulated physical ledger from the typescript code: pressing the ledger buttons in order to sign the transactions.

The script receives two arguments: 

- the number of transactions to sign (could be zero)
- the seed for the ledger, that controls the ledger addresses (could be one word)

Eg to start the ledger app and sign one transaction (will wait -with timeout- for that transaction to be sent):

```bash
ts-node launcheAndApproveTxs.ts 1 ledger-seed
```

It can be executed directly by command line, or from inside golang test code.

Note: Besides the typescript based interaction with the ledger's buttons and screen, a web based interaction is also
provided by the simulator, and available under `http://localhost:5000`

## How a golang test connects to the simulator instead of a physical device

As it is currently implemented, a tag must be passed to the build step for avalanche-cli and e2e test binary:

```
-tags ledger_zemu
```

With these tag, the ledger golang library will try to connect to an rpc endpoint instead of a usb device 
when asked to send requests to ledger (query for addresses, etc).

Currently the rpc endpoint is hardcoded in ledger golang library to: `127.0.0.1:3002`

## How a golang test executes and interacts with the typescript script

The test should call `utils.StartLedgerSim(numApprovals, ledgerSeed, showStdout)` by providing:

- number of txs to be approved by the ledger
- seed for the ledger
- wether to show stdout

The function returns two channels:

- first one should be closed to notify the simulator that it can start shutdown process
- second one should be waited for to be confident that the simulator stopped.

See example on `deploy subnet to mainnet` test

It is expected for a test to check env var `LEDGER_SIM`, if it is set to `true`, launch and wait for
the simulator, if not, the test is expected to operate agains a real device.

## Ledger device status for avalanche-cli tests interaction

Latest avalanche ledger app downloadable version `v0.7.2` (and also latest ledger live official version `v0.7.0`) can not interact with tests
as it does not support avalanche-cli local network id 1337.

For that, currently the tests operate against a modified version of `v0.7.2`, available as `app_s.elf` binary.

For a real ledger device to be used with the tests, it should be loaded with a supporting version, currently available on dev branch of ledger-avalanche.

It is expected for next downloadable version to:

- support network id 1337
- provide elf binary downloads

With that elements provided, CLI e2e could start downloading latest ledger app and using it on CI.

## How to execute the test script

By default, the e2e script `scripts/run.e2e.sh` will try to execute all tests (including ledger based ones),
and use physical ledger device.

In order to used a simulated ledger device with the script, the env var LEDGER_SIM should be set to `true`.

For example:

```bash
LEDGER_SIM=true scripts/run.e2e.sh
```

Will execute all e2e tests using a simulated ledger device.

In order to execute a specific ledger test, it must be provided in filter arg.

For example:

```bash
LEDGER_SIM=true scripts/run.e2e.sh --filter 'deploy subnet to mainnet'
```

Another example that always needs to use ledger sim due to test implementation:

```bash
LEDGER_SIM=true scripts/run.e2e.sh --filter multisig
```
